README.md, before:

![img](person.jpg)

## Dependencies

Python3, tensorflow 0.12, numpy, opencv 3.

## Update

@[Ryansun](https://github.com/ryansun1900) contributed the **training part of YOLO9000**. The project is now completed :)

Someone's quick and 
**Android demo is available on Tensorflow's official github!** [here](https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow/blob/master/tensorflow/examples/android/src/org/tensorflow/demo/TensorFlowYoloDetector.java)

**Demo in webcam is available!**. Use option `--demo camera` :)

YOLOv1 is up and running:
- v1.0: `yolo-full` 1.1GB, `yolo-small` 376MB, `yolo-tiny` 180MB
- v1.1: `yolov1` 789MB, `tiny-yolo` 108MB, `tiny-coco` 268MB, `yolo-coco` 937MB

YOLO9000 is up and running:
- `yolo` 270MB, `tiny-yolo-voc` 63 MB.

### Parsing the annotations

Skip this if you are not training or fine-tuning anything (you simply want to forward flow a trained net)

For example, if you want to work with only 3 classes `tvmonitor`, `person`, `pottedplant`; edit `labels.txt` as follows

```
tvmonitor
person
pottedplant
```

And that's it. `darkflow` will take care of the rest.

### Design the net

Skip this if you are working with one of the three original configurations since they are already there. Otherwise, see the following example:

```python
...

[convolutional]
batch_normalize = 1
size = 3
stride = 1
pad = 1
activation = leaky

[maxpool]

[connected]
output = 4096
activation = linear

...
```

### Flowing the graph using `flow`

```bash
# Have a look at its options
./flow --h
```

First, let's take a closer look at one of a very useful option `--load`

```bash
# 1. Load yolo-tiny.weights
./flow --model cfg/yolo-tiny.cfg --load bin/yolo-tiny.weights

# 2. To completely initialize a model, leave the --load option
./flow --model cfg/yolo-3c.cfg

# 3. It is useful to reuse the first identical layers of tiny for 3c
./flow --model cfg/yolo-3c.cfg --load bin/yolo-tiny.weights
# this will print out which layers are reused, which are initialized
```

All input images from default folder `test/` are flowed through the net and predictions are put in `test/out/`. We can always specify more parameters for such forward passes, such as detection threshold, batch size, test folder, etc.

```bash
# Forward all images in test/ using tiny yolo and 100% GPU usage
./flow --test test/ --model cfg/yolo-tiny.cfg --load bin/yolo-tiny.weights --gpu 1.0
```

### Training new model

Training is simple as you only have to add option `--train` like below:

```bash
# Initialize yolo-3c from yolo-tiny, then train the net on 100% GPU:
./flow --model cfg/yolo-3c.cfg --load bin/yolo-tiny.weights --train --gpu 1.0

# Completely initialize yolo-3c and train it with ADAM optimizer
./flow --model cfg/yolo-3c.cfg --train --trainer adam
```

During training, the script will occasionally save intermediate results into Tensorflow checkpoints, stored in `ckpt/`. To resume to any checkpoint before performing training/testing, use `--load [checkpoint_num]` option, if `checkpoint_num < 0`, `darkflow` will load the most recent save by parsing `ckpt/checkpoint`.

```bash
# Resume the most recent checkpoint for training
./flow --train --model cfg/yolo-3c.cfg --load -1

# Test with checkpoint at step 1500
./flow --model cfg/yolo-3c.cfg --load 1500

# Fine tuning yolo-tiny from the original one
./flow --train --model cfg/yolo-tiny.cfg --load bin/yolo-tiny.weights
```

### Migrating the graph to mobile devices (JAVA / C++ / Objective-C++)

```bash
## Saving the lastest checkpoint to protobuf file
./flow --model cfg/yolo-3c.cfg --load -1 --savepb
```

For further usage of this protobuf file, please refer to the official documentation of `Tensorflow` on C++ API [_here_](https://www.tensorflow.org/versions/r0.9/api_docs/cc/index.html). To run it on, say, iOS application, simply add the file to Bundle Resources and update the path to this file inside source code.

That's all.

Commit message:

Add instructions for training against other dataset

README.md, after:

![img](person.jpg)

## Dependencies

Python3, tensorflow 0.12, numpy, opencv 3.

## Update

@[Ryansun](https://github.com/ryansun1900) contributed the **training part of YOLO9000**. The project is now completed :)

Someone's quick and 
**Android demo is available on Tensorflow's official github!** [here](https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow/blob/master/tensorflow/examples/android/src/org/tensorflow/demo/TensorFlowYoloDetector.java)

**Demo in webcam is available!**. Use option `--demo camera` :)

YOLOv1 is up and running:
- v1.0: `yolo-full` 1.1GB, `yolo-small` 376MB, `yolo-tiny` 180MB
- v1.1: `yolov1` 789MB, `tiny-yolo` 108MB, `tiny-coco` 268MB, `yolo-coco` 937MB

YOLO9000 is up and running:
- `yolo` 270MB, `tiny-yolo-voc` 63 MB.

### Parsing the annotations

Skip this if you are not training or fine-tuning anything (you simply want to forward flow a trained net)

For example, if you want to work with only 3 classes `tvmonitor`, `person`, `pottedplant`; edit `labels.txt` as follows

```
tvmonitor
person
pottedplant
```

And that's it. `darkflow` will take care of the rest.

### Design the net

Skip this if you are working with one of the three original configurations since they are already there. Otherwise, see the following example:

```python
...

[convolutional]
batch_normalize = 1
size = 3
stride = 1
pad = 1
activation = leaky

[maxpool]

[connected]
output = 4096
activation = linear

...
```

### Flowing the graph using `flow`

```bash
# Have a look at its options
./flow --h
```

First, let's take a closer look at one of a very useful option `--load`

```bash
# 1. Load yolo-tiny.weights
./flow --model cfg/yolo-tiny.cfg --load bin/yolo-tiny.weights

# 2. To completely initialize a model, leave the --load option
./flow --model cfg/yolo-3c.cfg

# 3. It is useful to reuse the first identical layers of tiny for 3c
./flow --model cfg/yolo-3c.cfg --load bin/yolo-tiny.weights
# this will print out which layers are reused, which are initialized
```

All input images from default folder `test/` are flowed through the net and predictions are put in `test/out/`. We can always specify more parameters for such forward passes, such as detection threshold, batch size, test folder, etc.

```bash
# Forward all images in test/ using tiny yolo and 100% GPU usage
./flow --test test/ --model cfg/yolo-tiny.cfg --load bin/yolo-tiny.weights --gpu 1.0
```

### Training new model

Training is simple as you only have to add option `--train` like below:

```bash
# Initialize yolo-3c from yolo-tiny, then train the net on 100% GPU:
./flow --model cfg/yolo-3c.cfg --load bin/yolo-tiny.weights --train --gpu 1.0

# Completely initialize yolo-3c and train it with ADAM optimizer
./flow --model cfg/yolo-3c.cfg --train --trainer adam
```

During training, the script will occasionally save intermediate results into Tensorflow checkpoints, stored in `ckpt/`. To resume to any checkpoint before performing training/testing, use `--load [checkpoint_num]` option, if `checkpoint_num < 0`, `darkflow` will load the most recent save by parsing `ckpt/checkpoint`.

```bash
# Resume the most recent checkpoint for training
./flow --train --model cfg/yolo-3c.cfg --load -1

# Test with checkpoint at step 1500
./flow --model cfg/yolo-3c.cfg --load 1500

# Fine tuning yolo-tiny from the original one
./flow --train --model cfg/yolo-tiny.cfg --load bin/yolo-tiny.weights
```

### Training against Udacity Self Driving Datasets

Udacity Self Driving Car course have provided an annotated dataset of images that contains bounding boxes for five classes of objects: cars, pedestrians, truck, cyclists and traffic lights.

A model cfg based on v1.1/tiny-yolo is provided for the udacity dataset in cfg/v1.1/tiny-yolov1-udacity-5c.cfg, with a TensorFlow checkpoint (here)[https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B2K7eATT8qRARVVvcGtQUzRBV1E/view?usp=sharing]

To train tiny-yolov1.weights from for the udacity dataset, the following step was taken: 1. Download udacity dataset (here)[http://bit.ly/udacity-annotations-autti] and download the following (annotation file)[https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B2K7eATT8qRAZHlsdTVCNWVLVnM/view?usp=sharing]

Create a small dataset with 3-5 images, and train via:
python3 flow --train --model cfg/v1.1/tiny-yolov1-5c.cfg --load tiny-yolov1.weights --dataset <folder to udacity images> --gpu 1.0
Reduce the learning rate in the cfg file, and continue training.
python3 flow --train --model cfg/v1.1/tiny-yolov1-5c.cfg --load -1 --dataset <folder to udacity images> --gpu 1.0
In general, above is a guideline to train against other datasets with different classes.

### Migrating the graph to mobile devices (JAVA / C++ / Objective-C++)

```bash
## Saving the lastest checkpoint to protobuf file
./flow --model cfg/yolo-3c.cfg --load -1 --savepb
```

For further usage of this protobuf file, please refer to the official documentation of `Tensorflow` on C++ API [_here_](https://www.tensorflow.org/versions/r0.9/api_docs/cc/index.html). To run it on, say, iOS application, simply add the file to Bundle Resources and update the path to this file inside source code.

That's all.
